---
external help file: ILAssembler-help.xml
online version: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.reflection.emit.opcodes.calli
schema: 2.0.0
---

# calli

## SYNOPSIS

Calls the method indicated on the evaluation stack (as a pointer to an entry point) with arguments described by a calling convention.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
calli
```

## DESCRIPTION

The following table lists the instruction's hexadecimal and Microsoft Intermediate Language (MSIL) assembly format, along with a brief reference summary:

| Format     | Assembly Format       |
| ---------- | --------------------- |
| 29 < `T` > | calli `callSiteDescr` |

 The stack transitional behavior, in sequential order, is:

1.  Method arguments `arg1` through `argN` are pushed onto the stack.

2.  The method entry pointer is pushed onto the stack.

3.  Method arguments `arg1` through `argN` and the method entry pointer are popped from the stack; the call to the method is performed. When complete, a return value is generated by the callee method and sent to the caller.

4.  The return value is pushed onto the stack.

 The `calli` instruction calls the method entry pointer with the arguments `arg1` through `argN`. The types of these arguments are described by the specific calling convention (`callSiteDesc`). The `calli` instruction may be immediately preceded by a `tail.` prefix to specify that the current method state should be released before transferring control. If the call would transfer control to a method of higher trust than the origin method the stack frame will not be released; instead, the execution will continue silently as if the `tail.` had not been supplied.

 The method entry pointer is assumed to be a specific pointer to native code (of the target machine) that can be legitimately called with the arguments described by the calling convention (a metadata token for a stand-alone signature). Such a pointer can be created using the `ldftn` or `ldvirtftn` instructions, or passed in from native code.

 The calling convention is not checked dynamically, so code that uses a `calli` instruction does not work correctly if the destination does not actually use the specified calling convention.

 The arguments are placed on the stack in left-to-right order. That is, the first argument is computed and placed on the stack, then the second argument, then the third, until all necessary arguments are atop the stack in descending order. The argument-building code sequence for an instance or virtual method must push that instance reference (which must not be a null reference) before any of the user-visible arguments.

 `System.Security.SecurityException` may be thrown if the system security does not grant the caller access to the called method. The security check can occur when the Microsoft Intermediate Language (MSIL) instructions are converted to native code rather than at runtime.

## INPUTS

### None

This function cannot be used with the pipeline.

## OUTPUTS

### None

This function cannot be used with the pipeline.

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS
